This week, I'll show you how to
train the Naive Bayes classifier.
In this context,
we're trained in something different than
in logistic regression or deep learning.
There is no gradient descent, we're just
counting frequencies of words in a corpus.
>> You'll now be creating step by step,
a Naive Bayes model for
sentiment analysis using a corpus of
tweets that you've already collected.
That's awesome, the first step for
any supervised machine learning project
is to gather the data to train and
test your model.
For sentiment analysis of tweets, this
step involves getting a corpus of tweets
and dividing it into two groups,
positive and negative tweets.
The next step is fundamental
to your model success.
The preprocessing step as
described in the previous module,
consists of five smaller steps.
One, lowercase the text.
Two, remove punctuation,
URLs, and handles.
Three, remove stop words.
Four, stemming or
reducing words to their common stem.
And five, finally, tokenizing or splitting
your document into single words or tokens.
For the assignments in this week,
it will be relatively straightforward
to implement this processing pipeline.
But in the real world,
you might find the gathering and
processing of texts takes up a big
chunk of your project hours.
Once you have a clean corpus of
process tweets, you'll start by
computing the vocabulary for each word and
class, like you did in the previous week.
This process will produce
a table like the one shown here.
You can compute the sum of words and
class in each corpus in this same step.
From this table of frequencies,
you get the conditional probability or
probability for a given class by using
the Laplacian smoothing formula.
See how the number of unique
words in V class = 6.
You only account for
the words in the table, not the total
number of words in the original corpus.
This produces a table of
conditional probabilities for
each word and each class.
This table only contains
values greater than 0.
For the 4th step, you'll get
the Lambda square for each word,
which is the log of the ratio of
your conditional probabilities.
The 5th step is the estimation
of the log prior.
To do this, you'll need to count the
number of positive and negative tweets.
And then the log prior is the log of
the ratio of the number of positive tweets
over the number of negative tweets.
In the upcoming assignments, you'll
be working with a balanced datasets.
So the log prior = 0.
But for unbalanced data sets,
this term will become important.
In summary, training a Naive Bayes model
can be divided into six logical steps.
You get to annotate a dataset with
positive and negative tweets.
Typically, it's better if your tweets
match the same context that you want to
use in the final model.
Then you process the raw text to get
a corpus of clean, standardized tokens.
You compute the dictionary frequencies for
each word and class, then compute
the conditional probabilities of each word
using the Laplacian smoothing formula.
You compute the Lambda factor for
each word.
And finally,
you estimate the log prior of the model or
how likely it is to see
a positive tweet in your account.
Wow, that was quite a lot.
Kudos to you for
all your hard work so far.
>> Now, you have seen how to build
the probability table needed
to apply Naive Bayes.
The next exciting thing we'll do
is to classify your sentences.